---
layout: brew
categories: brew
title:  "Skorubrew #5"
date:   2016-04-15
brewday: 2016-04-24
ambient-temp : 24
yeast-temp : 20
original-gravity: 1.058
brew-status : Fermenting
---

After tossing up between using honey, making another dark beer and using a different yeast I landed on using a Belgian yeast to make a Belgian pale ale. After some advice from my LHBS I decided to add 300g of Vienna malt into the #3 recipe. 

Ingredients
-----

* Maris otter Malt 1kg
* Vienna malt 300g
* Quick oats 150g
* Cascade hops 5g @ 50 minutes
* Cascade hops 5g @ flameout
* Citra hops 5g @ flameout
* Citra hops 5g dry hop
* Cascade hops 5g dry hop
* Mangrove Jacks Belgian yeast M27

Method
-------

* Prepare 6.5L of campden tablet treated water
* Heat 4L of water to 70 degrees
* Cook oats separately in the microwave so they don't clump when added to the mash
* Slowly add the malt into the bag while stirring to prevent clumping
* Cover for 60 minutes
* Take out the malt bag and allow to drip
* Pour the remaining 2L @75C of water over the closed bag
* Heat mash to 100 degrees and start timer
* Sanitise fermenter
* After 10 minutes hops
* After 60 minutes remove from the heat and chill
* Add flameout hops
* While chilling create a whirlpool to concentrate the particulate in the centre of the kettle
* After chilling transfer to the carboy
* Wait for fermentation
* Leave in the fermenter until fermentation settles down
* Once fermentation has settled down add dry hops
* Wait 3 days

Brewday 24-04-2016
----------

* Gradually pouring in the grain prevented in clumping quite well.
* Forgot to take out 2L of water so I guess this is a full volume BIAB. Ended up pouring some more cold water to get a bit more out of the grain
* Ended up adding cascade hops at flameout as I probably need to use them faster
* OG came in much lower than expected at 1.058 (14 Brix). Guessing the full volume BIAB wasn't good for efficiency
* My volumes this time were spot on. Probably helped covering the kettle as it cooled so not as much water could escape

Updates
-------
* 24-04-2016 23:00 Fermentation has already started. Much faster than with US-05. Hopefully it doesn't bubble over during the night
* 26-04-2016 10:15 Fermentation has slowed. Temp is 24C. Currently looking very bright yellow
